{\rtf1\ansi\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0 Arial;}}
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\f0\fs28 Updated Security & Privacy Analysis Report\par
\b0\fs24\par
\b Overall Assessment:\b0\par
The project is designed for local execution, limiting exposure. Key services bind to localhost, and API access is restricted. The {\i setup.sh} script attempts helpful automation but introduces minor risks associated with running external commands and relies on the user's environment. The core privacy consideration remains the forwarding of search queries to external engines via SearxNG, which is now noted in the README.\par
\par
\b Findings & Recommendations:\b0\par
\par
\b 1. Dependency Management (Containerfile & requirements.txt):\b0\par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\fi360\bullet\tab \b Finding (Containerfile):\b0 Uses {\i docker.io/searxng/searxng:latest}. Using {\i :latest} can lead to unpredictable builds and vulnerability ingestion.\par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\fi360\bullet\tab \b Finding (requirements.txt):\b0 Currently only lists {\i requests}. No version is pinned. Unpinned dependencies can lead to unexpected behavior or vulnerabilities.\par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\fi360\bullet\tab \b Severity:\b0 Low (Build Reproducibility/Potential Vulnerability Ingestion).\par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\fi360\bullet\tab \b Recommendation:\b0\par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\fi720\bullet\tab Pin the base image in {\i Containerfile} to a specific version tag (e.g., {\i FROM docker.io/searxng/searxng:1.2.0}).\par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\fi720\bullet\tab Pin the {\i requests} version in {\i llm_web_agent/requirements.txt} (e.g., {\i requests==2.31.0}).\par
\par
\b 2. Secret Management (settings.yml & Containerfile):\b0\par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\fi360\bullet\tab \b Finding:\b0 The SearxNG {\i secret_key} in {\i searxng_config/settings.yml} is copied into the container image via {\i Containerfile}. This embeds the secret within the image layer.\par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\fi360\bullet\tab \b Severity:\b0 Low-Medium (Risk increases if the image is shared).\par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\fi360\bullet\tab \b Recommendation:\b0 For better security if the image might be distributed, mount {\i settings.yml} as a volume at runtime ({\i podman run -v ./searxng_config/settings.yml:/etc/searxng/settings.yml:Z ...}) instead of copying it during the build.\par
\par
\b 3. Data Forwarding & Privacy (agent.py & config.py):\b0\par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\fi360\bullet\tab \b Finding:\b0 User prompts triggering searches are sent to SearxNG, which forwards them to external engines configured in {\i llm_web_agent/config.py} ({\i engines} parameter). Any PII or sensitive info in search queries is exposed to these third parties.\par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\fi360\bullet\tab \b Severity:\b0 Medium (Privacy Implication - Data Exposure to Third Parties).\par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\fi360\bullet\tab \b Recommendation:\b0\par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\fi720\bullet\tab The {\i README.md} now clarifies this (Addressed).\par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\fi720\bullet\tab Users should still be encouraged to review and customize the {\i engines} list in {\i llm_web_agent/config.py} based on their privacy preferences.\par
\par
\b 4. Configuration Management (config.py):\b0\par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\fi360\bullet\tab \b Finding:\b0 URLs ({\i LOCAL_LM_URL}, {\i SEARXNG_URL}) are hardcoded.\par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\fi360\bullet\tab \b Severity:\b0 Low (Usability/Flexibility).\par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\fi360\bullet\tab \b Recommendation:\b0 Use environment variables (e.g., {\i os.getenv}) to allow overriding URLs without code changes.\par
\par
\b 5. Content Filtering (config.py):\b0\par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\fi360\bullet\tab \b Finding:\b0 SearxNG safe search is off ({\i "safesearch": "0"}).\par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\fi360\bullet\tab \b Severity:\b0 Low (Content Safety).\par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\fi360\bullet\tab \b Recommendation:\b0 Consider changing the default {\i safesearch} value to {\i "1"} (moderate) or {\i "2"} (strict) in {\i llm_web_agent/config.py}.\par
\par
\b 6. Metrics Collection (settings.yml):\b0\par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\fi360\bullet\tab \b Finding:\b0 SearxNG metrics collection is assumed to be disabled ({\i enable_metrics: false}) as per user feedback.\par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\fi360\bullet\tab \b Severity:\b0 N/A (Addressed).\par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\fi360\bullet\tab \b Recommendation:\b0 Keep metrics disabled for enhanced privacy in a local setup.\par
\par
\b 7. Shell Script Security (setup.sh):\b0\par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\fi360\bullet\tab \b Finding:\b0 The script uses {\i eval} for installation commands and runs package managers (potentially with {\i sudo}) and service start commands.\par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\fi360\bullet\tab \b Severity:\b0 Low (Potential for misuse if script modified; inherent risks of automation).\par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\fi360\bullet\tab \b Recommendation:\b0 Acceptable for convenience in a trusted environment. Ensure users understand the script runs installation/system commands.\par
\par
\b 8. Error Handling Verbosity (agent.py):\b0\par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\fi360\bullet\tab \b Finding:\b0 Some exception handlers print full exception messages.\par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\fi360\bullet\tab \b Severity:\b0 Low (Minor Information Leakage).\par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\fi360\bullet\tab \b Recommendation:\b0 Acceptable for a local tool.\par
\par
\b 9. Prompt Injection (agent.py):\b0\par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\fi360\bullet\tab \b Finding:\b0 User input is passed to the Local LM.\par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\fi360\bullet\tab \b Severity:\b0 Low (LLM Security - limited impact locally).\par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\fi360\bullet\tab \b Recommendation:\b0 Be aware of risks. No specific action needed for this scope.\par
\par
\b Compliance (GDPR/CCPA etc.):\b0\par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\fi360\bullet\tab \b Transparency:\b0 Addressed by the README update.\par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\fi360\bullet\tab \b Data Minimization:\b0 Good, assuming metrics are disabled.\par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\fi360\bullet\tab \b User Control:\b0 Good via configuration files.\par
\par
\b Conclusion:\b0\par
The project is reasonably secure for local use, with transparency improved. Key remaining recommendations involve dependency pinning and considering volume mounts for secrets if the image is shared.\par
}